Update Lisk framework docs - Closes #769 (#777)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/explanations/architecture/index.adoc

= Architecture
Mona Bärenfänger <mona@lightcurve.io>
//Settings
:page-aliases: lisk-framework/index.adoc
:toc: preamble
:v_core: 3.0.0

> :imagesdir: ../../assets/images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:imagesdir: ../../../assets/images
```

// Project URLs
:url_explanations_modules: explanations/architecture/on-chain.adoc
:url_explanations_plugins: explanations/architecture/off-chain.adoc
:url_explanations_communication: explanations/architecture/communication.adoc
:url_guides_config: guides/app-development/configuration.adoc
:url_references_config: references/config.adoc

image:banner_framework.png[Logo]

== The Lisk Framework

The Lisk Framework is an application framework which integrates the Lisk Elements packages in order to form a functioning Lisk blockchain application.
Its modular architecture allows developers to extend the off-chain and on-chain logic with user defined plugins and modules.

The Lisk Framework provides a consistent and intuitive interface between each module and plugin.

== Architecture overview

The diagram shown below provides a high-level overview of the architecture:

image:architecture.png[Logo]

The framework is constructed by the following components:

===  <<Application>>
The application is an entry point and manages the controller and the node.

[[on-chain-architecture]]
=== xref:{url_explanations_modules}[On-chain architecture]

> Node:: The main object in charge of acting on the blockchain including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Node:: This is the main object responsible for all actions on the blockchain including:
```

* forging blocks
* synchronising with the network
* processing blocks from the network
* ... and broadcasting blocks and transactions to the network.

> Modules:: Objects injected into the node with a single responsibility related to the blockchain state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modules:: These are objects injected into the node with a single responsibility related to the blockchain state.
```

[[off-chain-architecture]]
=== xref:{url_explanations_plugins}[Off-chain architecture]

> Plugins:: Applications which interact with the node through RPC channels to expose information from the node outside the context of the blockchain itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plugins:: These are applications that interact with the node through RPC channels, to expose information from the node outside the context of the blockchain itself.
```

=== xref:{url_explanations_communication}[Communication architecture]

> Controller:: Handles the setup and teardown of channels and plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Controller:: This handles the setup and teardown of channels and plugins.
```

> Also, it is responsible for the communication between the plugins and the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, it is also responsible for the communication between the plugins and the application.
```

== Application

The `Application` class is an entry point to create a blockchain application.
It can be instantiated in two ways:

[source,js]
----
//Initiates the Application including all default modules
const app = Application.defaultApplication(genesisBlock, config);
//Initiates the Application without default modules
const app = new Application(genesisBlock, config);
----

`genesisBlock` represents the <<genesis-block>> and `config` represents the application <<configuration>>.

[TIP]

> The recommended way to create an `Application` instance, is to use `defaultApplication` since it comes with the default modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The recommended method to create an `Application` instance, is to use the `defaultApplication` since it comes with the default modules.
```

If the class constructor is used, the modules need to be registered manually.

=== Registering modules and plugins

> In order to register an additional module below function should be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to register an additional module, the function below should be used.
```

[source,js]
----
app.registerModule(CustomModule);
----

> Additionally, any plugin may be registered with the below function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, any plugin may be registered with the function below.
```

[source,js]
----
app.registerPlugin(CustomPlugin);
----

== Configuration

The application config object is passed to the `Application` and must follow the  xref:{url_references_config}[] schema.

For more information about how to configure your blockchain application, check out the guide xref:{url_guides_config}[].

== Genesis block

> A genesis block must be given to the application, and all networks should have different genesis block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A genesis block must be given to the application, and all networks should have a different genesis block.
```
